HDFC

Paisabazaar
Credit Cards 
Personal Loan 
Other Loans
Home Loan
Business Loan
Personal Loan Balance Transfer
Home Loan Balance Transfer
Loan Against Property 
Resources
EMI Calculator
Personal Loan EMI Calculator
Home Loan EMI Calculator
Business Loan EMI Calculator 
All About
Aadhar Card
PAN Card
Public Provident Fund
Employees Provident Fund
Post Office Schemes 
Others
Check CIBIL Score FREE
IFSC Code
Banking
GST Calculator
Get Free Credit Score
Sign In
HDFC Bank Agriculture Loan
Home  Personal Loan  HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan
illustration
Unlock Best Personal Loan Offers From 30+ Lenders
Bank will contact you on this Number
Mobile Number
(0/10)
Employment Type
Salaried
Self Employed

By submitting this form, you have read and agree to the Credit Report Terms of Use, Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
Apply Now
loading
Check Best Personal Loan Offers with Quick Disbursal
Minimal Documentation

No Collateral

Instant Disbursal

Apply Now!
Language iconहिंदी में पढ़े
Updated: 28-02-2022 19:06:23 PM
HDFC Bank offers a wide range of agricultural loans to meet a variety of financing needs related to agriculture including farming of staple and cash crops, horticulture, dairy farming, food processing as well as transportation and warehousing of agricultural products. Read this article to know key details regarding various types of HDFC Bank agricultural loans.

Table of Contents

Features of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan
Interest Rates
Types of HDFC Agricultural Loan
Eligibility Criteria
Documents Required for Agricultural Loan Application
EMI Calculation for HDFC Bank Agriculture Loan
Comparison of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan with Other Lenders
Benefits of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan
Customer care
Important Aspects
FAQs
 

Features of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan
Features of the major agricultural loans offered by HDFC Bank have been discussed in this section.

A. HDFC Kisan Credit Card

Types
Cash Credit/ Over draft: It can be used to meet cost of crop production, repair, maintenance, and post-harvest activities.
Term Loan: It can be used for investment purposes, such as land development, purchase of irrigation equipment or farm implement.
Loan Quantum: Based on land under cultivation, scale of finance and cropping pattern.
Security Requirement
Primary: The crops and assets created using the loan amount.
Collateral: Agricultural land/ liquid security/ urban property.
Repayment Tenure: 5 years
B. HDFC Small Agri Business Loan

Offered to individuals and companies.
Collateral: Residential/ industrial/ commercial property or cash and liquid collateral.
Repayment Tenure: 1 year with annual reversal.
C. HDFC Kisan Shakti Loan

Offered to large farmers with an additional source of income from non-farm activities.
The loan amount can be used for land leveling, fencing, deepening of well and ringing, soil reclamation, repair and replacement of irrigation system or farm machinery/ implement, and domestic consumption needs.
Security Requirements
Primary: The assets created using the loan amount.
Collateral: Agricultural land or urban property or liquid security.
D. HDFC Horticulture Loan

Types
Cash Credit/ Over draft: For cost of crop production, expenses towards consumption, post harvest or repair and maintenance.
Term Loan: For investment purposes, such as purchase of irrigation equipment or farm implement.
Security Requirements
Primary: The corps and assets created out of the loan amount.
Collateral: Liquid security/ agricultural land/ urban property.
Repayment Tenure: 5 years
HDFC Agricultural Loan Interest Rate
The interest rate offered by HDFC Bank on various types of agricultural loans is not fixed, and varies depending on the applicant’s profile and the desired loan parameters. The exact HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan interest rate is communicated to an applicant through the loan agreement provided prior to disbursal.

Also Know: Which bank offers lower interest rates on personal loans in India?

Types of HDFC Agricultural Loan
HDFC Bank offers multiple types of agricultural loans depending on whether you are a farmer, an agricultural businessperson or a trader as well as the purpose for which you need the HDFC agricultural loan.

The following table summarizes the key types of agricultural loans offered by HDFC Bank.

Type of Agricultural Loan	Variants of the HDFC Agricultural Loan	Brief Description
HDFC Kisan Credit Card	Cash Credit/ Overdraft
Term Loan

HDFC Kisan Credit Card under the Government’s Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme is offered to farmers for financing a variety of agricultural expenses such as crop production, post-harvest maintenance, purchase of farm equipment, construction of storage structures, etc.
Small Agri Business Loan	Working Capital
Term Loan

Working Capital Demand Loan

EPC

Bank Guarantee

It is a secured agricultural loan for agri traders, exporters, food processing firms, etc.
Pledge Loan – Warehousing Receipt	N/A	This loan allows you to get a loan against the commodities stored in your warehouse.
Kisan Shakti Loan	Cash Credit
Over draft

Drop Line Over Draft

Term Loan

It is offered to large farmers, who have an additional source of income from non-farming activities. The loan can used for soil reclamation, leveling, fencing, repairing of irrigation system, etc.
Tractor Loan	Secured or unsecured loan for purchase of new/old tractors and farm equipment. Agricultural land can be used as collateral to avail this loan.	You can get a loan up to 90% of the tractor’s cost with a repayment tenure up to 7 years.
Horticulture Loan	Cash Credit/ Over draft
Term Loan

Farmers can avail this loan for activities related to setting up or maintaining a nursery, orchard, green house, etc.
Allied Activities Loan	N/A	This loan can be used for allied agricultural activities, such as poultry, dairy, fisheries, etc.
Eligibility Criteria for HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan 
Loan Type	Eligibility Criteria
Kisan Card/ Kisan Gold Card	You should be a farmer.
You should own an agricultural land and be actively engaged in cultivation of crops.

Small Agri Business Loan	Your business should be operational for at least 3 years at the same location, otherwise 5 years.
Your tangible net worth and profit after tax should be positive for at least 2 out of the previous 3 financial years.

Eligibility also depends on other factors like over drawings, credit utilization ratio, number of cheque returns, etc.

Pledge Loan – Warehousing Receipt
 

You should be a farmer or trader.
You should have been storing produce in warehouse or cold storage.

Kisan Shakti Loan	Large farmers with an additional source of income from non-farming activities.
Tractor Loan	Applicant must be within the 18 to 60 years age-group.
You should have a minimum annual income of Rs. 1 lakh, if you are a farmer and Rs. 1.5 lakh if you belong to commercial segment.

Horticulture Loan	You should be an individual farmer or have a joint borrower.
Applicant must be at least 18 years old and no more than 60 years of age.

Mandatory co-signing of legal heir is required if you are above 60 years old.

Documents Required
For HDFC Kisan Gold Card

Duly filled loan application form.
Government-issued KYC documents of Borrower/Co-borrower/Guarantor;
Copy of Land records;
Copy of Government land rate of agriculture land;
Latest updated passbook/bank statement.
For HDFC Small Agri Business Loan

Loan application form;
KYC Documents, including MOA & AOA/ Partnership Deed/ COI);
Proof of property and income;
Bank account statement for the last 6 months;
Stock and Receivables statement;
Proof of Business Registration Proof;
Repayment track record of any existing loan;
Value of last 6 months’ stock as well as details of debts on letter head.
For HDFC Pledge Loan – Warehousing Receipt

Land Documents.
Proof of Address, which may include voter ID card, telephone bill, electricity bill, Aadhaar card, etc.
Proof of Identity/ Signature, which may include PAN card, voter ID card, driving licence, etc.
For HDFC Tractor Loan

Loan application form;
Latest photograph;
Aadhaar Card (Mandatory);
Proof of Identity and Signature;
Proof of Address;
Proof of Land Ownership.
For HDFC Horticulture Loan

Loan application form;
KYC of borrower/ co-borrower/ guarantor;
Land records;
land rate of agriculture land;
Updated passbook/ bank account statement.
EMI Calculation for HDFC Bank Agriculture Loan
The following table shows the calculated EMI amounts for a HDFC Agricultural Loan based on different loan amounts, interest rates and tenures. You can use Paisabazaar’s personal loan EMI calculator to calculate the specific EMI amount applicable to your HDFC agricultural loan.

Loan Amount (Rs.) and Interest Rate	
Monthly EMI Payout (Rs.)

1-year loan tenure	2-year loan tenure	3-year loan tenure	4-year loan tenure	5-year loan tenure
Rs. 4 lakh @ 10%	35,166	18,457	12,906	10,145	8,498
Rs. 5 lakh @ 9%	 43,725	 22,842	15,899	12,442	10,379
Rs. 7 lakh @12%	62,194	32,951	23,250	18,433	15,571
Comparison of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan with Other Lenders
The following table compares HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan to similar offerings from other leading banks in India:

Comparison Criteria	HDFC Bank	 
State Bank of India (SBI)

Central Bank of India	IndusInd Bank	ICICI Bank
Interest Rate	Varies on case to case basis	7% onwards	7.5% onwards	9.5% onwards	9.6% onwards
Tenure	Up to 7 years	 
Varies as per the loan type, but generally up to 5 years

Variable, generally up to 7-8 years	Up to 5 years	Up to 4 years
Loan amount	Varies on case to case basis	Up to Rs. 50 lakh	Up to Rs. 2 crore	Varies on case to case basis	Varies on case to case basis
Benefits of HDFC Bank Agricultural Loan
Flexible end-use: HDFC Bank offers a variety of agricultural loans as per your unique financing needs. You can avail the loan to meet expenses related to crop production, purchase of farm machinery, managing post-harvest expenses, setting up dairy/poultry farms and even for setting up a nursery.
Minimum Documentation: You can get HDFC Agricultural Loan with minimal documentation which is simple to complete.
Security: You can avail both secured and collateral-free loan depending on the loan type and the desired loan amount.
HDFC Bank Customer Care
Following are the customer care details for HDFC Bank.

Phone Number: You can call on 6160-6161, if you are a resident of Ahmedabad , Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi & NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai or Pune.  While you can call on 6160-616, if you are a resident of Chandigarh, Cochin, Indore, Jaipur or Lucknow.
HDFC Online Help: You can access this facility through the HDFC Bank official website, in case you have a query, complaint or feedback.
Virtual Assistant/ Chatbot, “Eva”: You can also use the HDFC Bank chatbot to get an answer to your queries. You can access Eva by visiting the bank website.
Visit Bank Branch: Alternatively, you can visit the nearest HDFC Bank branch in person to get a resolution to your queries.
Important Aspects to Consider While Applying for an Agricultural Loan
You should keep the following points in mind while applying for an agricultural loan:

Ensure that you meet all the applicable eligibility criteria before applying for an agricultural loan.
You should have all the required documents handy for the specific loan type offered by HDFC bank.
Maintain a good repayment history to have a high credit score.
Keep a balance between the quantum of secured and unsecured loans availed by you.
Do not use a large proportion of the total credit available to you. This will keep your credit utilization ratio remains low, ideally below 30% which will improve your chances of getting your loan sanctioned.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Q1. What are the various types of agricultural loans offered by HDFC Bank?

Ans. The various types of agricultural loans offered by HDFC Bank are:

Kisan Credit Card Loan
Small Agri Business Loan
Pledge Loan – Warehousing Receipt
Kisan Shakti Loan
Tractor Loan
Horticulture Loan
Allied Activities Loan
Q2. What is the interest rate on HDFC Agriculture Loan?

Ans. The interest rate on HDFC Bank Agriculture Loan is not fixed and depends on applicant’s profile and the desired loan parameters. The details decided on a case by case basis are communicated through the loan agreement.

Q3. Who can apply for HDFC Kisan Credit Card?

Ans. Farmers, who own an agricultural land and actively cultivate crops can apply for HDFC Kisan Credit Card.

Q4. What is the repayment tenure for HDFC Tractor Loan?

Ans. The repayment tenure for HDFC Tractor Loan can go up to 7 years.

Q5. Do I need to pledge collateral to avail HDFC Kisan Shakti Loan?

Ans. Yes, you need to pledge security to avail HDFC Kisan Shakti Loan.

Q6. What is the customer care email address of HDFC Bank?

Ans. The customer care email address for HDFC Bank is support@hdfcbank.com.

Q7. How can I calculate EMIs for my agricultural loan?

Ans. You can use the Paisabazaar EMI Calculator to calculate the EMIs for your agricultural loan.

Q8. How can I find the nearest HDFC Bank branch?

Ans. You can use branch locator on the HDFC Bank website to find the nearest branch of the bank easily.

 

Personal Loan Pages
Personal Loan
Personal Loan Interest Rate
Best Personal Loan in India
Personal Loan Eligibility
Personal Loan Documents Required
Personal Loan Status
Personal Loan EMI Calculator
Personal Loan Balance Transfer
Personal Loan For Salaried Employees
 

Personal Loan by Banks & NBFCs
HDFC Personal Loan
SBI Personal Loan
Axis Bank Personal Loan
ICICI Personal Loan
Bajaj Finserv Personal Loan
Tata Capital Personal Loan
Yes Bank Personal Loan
Home Credit Personal Loan
Canara Bank Personal Loan
Kotak Mahindra Bank Personal Loan
Indusind Bank Personal Loan
PNB Personal Loan
Bank Of Baroda Personal Loan
IDBI Personal Loan
Dhani Personal Loan
Indian Bank Personal Loan
Federal Bank Personal Loan
Standard Chartered Personal Loan
SMFG India Credit Personal Loan
Bank Of India Personal Loan
Muthoot Finance Personal Loan
RBL Bank Personal Loan
HSBC Personal Loan
UCO Bank Personal Loan
Union Bank Of India Personal Loan
Central Bank Of India Personal Loan
Bank of Maharashtra Personal Loan
Cashe Personal Loan
Moneytap Personal Loan
IDFC First Bank Personal Loan
Kreditbee Personal Loan
Moneyview Personal Loan
Early Salary Personal Loan
Aditya Birla Personal Loan
DMI Finance Personal Loan
Shriram Finance Personal Loan
Navi Personal Loan
BFIL Personal Loan
KSFE Personal Loan
 

Personal Loan By Amount
Personal Loan of Rs. 50000
Personal Loan of Rs. 1 Lakh
Personal Loan of Rs. 3 Lakh
Personal Loan of Rs. 5 Lakh
Personal Loan of Rs. 10 Lakh
 

Personal Loan Articles
How to Transfer Personal Loan from One Bank to Another
How Lenders Decide Personal Loan Eligibility?
What are My Chances of Getting Personal Loan Approval
How Do Lenders Decide Personal Loan Amount
How to Track the Status of your Personal Loan Application?
MOST SEARCHED LINKS 
OUR INVESTORS

paisabazaar.com
PAISABAZAAR

About
Careers
Contact
GROUP BRANDS

Policybazaar.com
Quickfixcars.com
Policybazaar.ae
Docprime.com
Download App

google-play
app-store
Investors Privacy Policy Terms of Use Disclaimer Intellectual Policy Sitemap
facebook
linkedin
twitter
youtube
instagram
Supported Payment Methods

Secured By

Certified By

CIN No. U74900HR2011PTC044581 © Copyright 2014-2023 Paisabazaar.com. All Rights Reserved.

india-flag
Built with Love
Made in India