Punjab National Bank
App Store
Google Play
Recruitments

Facebook
Twitter

Linkedin
Instagram

YouTube
KOO
KOO
WhatsApp
Threads

Sunday, November 12, 2023
हिंदी संस्करण
Contact Us
Sitemap
A- A A+

PNB Apps
Calculator
Tenders
Public Notices
Search



Home
About Us 
Products 
E-Services 
Investor Info 
Customer Care 
NRI
Download Forms
Internet Banking
General Guidelines For Agricultural Credit
HomePersonal > Agricultural Banking >General Guidelines For Agricultural Credit
General Guidelines for Agricultural Credit
1.TIME SCHEDULE FOR DISPOSAL OF LOAN APPLICATIONS:
Loan Amount

Time schedule (maximum)

Upto Rs. 2 lakh

2 weeks

Above Rs. 2 lakh & upto Rs. 50 lakh

4 weeks

Above Rs. 50 lakh & upto Rs. 100 lakh

5-6 weeks

Above Rs. 100 lakh & upto Rs. 100 crores

6-7 weeks

Above Rs. 100 crores

8-9 weeks

2.MARGIN NORMS:
(a) For production and/or Investment Credit:
Amount of loan

Margin

Upto Rs. 1,60,000/- (both for short term and medium term)

Nil

Above Rs.1,60,000/- to Rs. 10 lakh

10%

Above Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh

15%

Above Rs. 25 lakh

25%

(b)       Under PNB Kisan Credit Card (KCC) Scheme: For production credit – NIL

(c)        Under the Scheme of Agri-Clinics/Agri-Business Centers:

Amount of loan

Margin

Upto Rs.5 lakh

NIL

Above Rs.5 lakh

25%

(d)       For tractor loan without mortgage of land: Minimum cash margin of 40%.

3.SECURITY NORMS:
A.

Production Credit/ Investment Credit

Security

i)

For loan upto Rs. 1.60 lakh

Hypothecation of crops and/or assets created out of Bank loan.

ii)

KCC (crop/ dairy/ fishery/ animal husbandry) loans upto Rs. 3.00 lakh under tie-up arrangement approved by HO: Agriculture Division

Hypothecation of crops and/or assets created out of Bank loan.

iii)

Above Rs. 1.60 lakh

a)            Hypothecation of crops and/ or assets created out of bank loan

AND

b)            Charge on land as per Agricultural Credit Operations and Miscellaneous Provisions Act of the State concerned/ Mortgage of agricultural land/ SARFAESI compliant immovable property valued at 75% of loan amount for other farmers and 50% of the loan amount for small and marginal farmers.

OR

Alternate security viz. charge/ lien over liquid securities such as term deposits/ NSC/ KVP, etc. which may be considered adequate

OR

Suitable third party guarantee

 

Note: If the Primary Security is in the shape of Land & Building, Residual Value over and above 100% of the loan amount shall be treated as collateral security.

B.

Under the Scheme of Agri-Clinics and Agri-Business Centres

 

i)

For loan upto Rs. 5.00 lakh

Hypothecation of assets created out of Bank loan.

ii)

 

 

 

 

 

Above Rs. 5.00 lakh

a)            Hypothecation of assets created out of bank loan

AND

b)            Charge on land as per Agricultural Credit Operations and Miscellaneous Provisions Act of the State concerned/ Mortgage of agricultural land/ SARFAESI compliant immovable property valued at 75% of loan amount for other farmers and 50% of the loan amount for small and marginal farmers.

OR

Alternate security viz. charge/ lien over liquid securities such as term deposits/ NSC/ KVP, etc. which may be considered adequate

OR

Suitable third party guarantee

 

Note: If the Primary Security is in the shape of Land & Building, Residual Value over and above 100% of the loan amount shall be treated as collateral security.

4. REPAYMENT PERIOD:
Short term credit:

Due dates fixed for recovery of crop loans towards adjustment of loan and interest should synchronise with harvesting and marketing of crops. A suitable marketing period after the actual harvest be allowed to borrower for marketing of produce and receiving sale proceeds so that he/she may conveniently repay Bank loan.

Investment credit:

Repayment period for investment activities shall be fixed as prescribed in the respective agriculture credit scheme.

ISSUE OF LOAN PASS BOOK:

Branches, issues loan passbook on PNB 589 or Statement of Account, invariably, to all borrowers to furnish borrowers with a clear statement of credit facilities availed by them separately indicating various features of charges levied.

5. ONLINE APPLICATION FOR AGRICULTURE LOAN TO FARMERS:
A customer facing portal is available to enable the customer to fill the application/ record their interest for Agriculture loans. The loan application portal can be accessed through Corporate Website of the Bank i.e. www.pnbindia.com >> Online Services >> Online Loans Apply >> AGRICULTURE LOAN.

Loan Applicant will fill in the basic details like Name, Mobile No, Address, Type of loan required, Loan Amount & preferred Branch and Lead acknowledgement with the reference number will be generated. Reference no. may be used by the applicant in the future communication with the Bank. Branch will contact the applicant and disposal of loan application will be done by the Branch official as per Bank’s extant guidelines. Decision of sanction/rejection of the application will be conveyed to applicant through SMS on his/her mobile number.

Please CLICK HERE to apply for Agriculture Loan.

Corporate
Corporate Loans
EXIM Finance
Cash Management Services
Gold Card Scheme for Exporters
Doorstep Banking Services
PNB mobile app
PNB CUSTOMER SUPPORT
Listen
Calculate
Auctions
Tenders / Empanelment
Public Notices
Recruitments
Economic Scenario
Bank Holidays
Digital Calendar
Regulatory Disclosure
Personal
Deposit Loans Approved Housing Projects Apply For OTS In NPA Accounts Insurance Government Business Financial Inclusion Priority Sector
Corporate
Corporate Loans Forex Services offered to Exporter and Importer Cash Management Services Gold Card Scheme for Exporters
International
FX Retail Platform Libor Transition Schemes / Products / Services NRI Services Help Desk For Forex Services World Travel Card Foreign Office Details Trade Finance Redefined Portal Outward Remittance under LRS
Capital Services
Depository Services Mutual Funds Merchant Banking ASBA
About Us
Screen Reader Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Policy Contact Us Sitemap Terms of use FAQ
Important Links
RBI RBI Kehta Hai SEBI IRDA SUM Integrity Pledge V-KYC PNB Apps
Corporate Office: Plot No 4, Sector -10 Dwarka New Delhi -110075

Application Development and Maintenance by cyfuture.com

Copyright © 2023 Punjab National Bank. All rights reserved.

Last Updated: 04-02-2023

PIHU- Pnb's Instant Help for you

FAQs for AGRICULTURE LOAN
Q. 1. What is agricultural loan?
Ans. The loan offered by Punjab National Bank to Individual farmers/ Joint
cultivator owners, so that they can meet their short term and long term farm related
expenses is called agricultural loan.
Q. 2. What are the benefits of availing agriculture loan form PNB?
Ans. Following are the benefits of availing Agriculture Loan from PNB:
 Available with minimal documentation.
 Special Interest rates starting at 7.00% p.a. Even lower for specified
Government backed schemes
 You can repay the loan over flexible repayment tenure.
 Unsecured agricultural loan also available, depending on the applicant’s
profile and the quantum of loan applied for.
 Agricultural loan amount can be used for a variety of agricultural purposes,
ranging from short-term seasonal farm activities to long-term investment in
farm machinery.
Q. 3. Who can avail agricultural loan?
Ans. Generally all farmers, joint cultivators, sharecroppers, SHGs, JLGs and tenant
farmers can avail an agricultural loan.
Q. 4. How to avail agricultural loan from PNB?
Ans. PNB Agriculture Loan can be applied through any of the below mentioned
channels such as:
 Send SMS “LOAN” to 56070.
 Apply online on PNB Website through link
https://pnbnet.org.in/ONLINELOAN/ > click “Agriculture Loan New
Application”.
 Give a Missed Call at 18001805555.
 Contact our Call Center at 18001802222.
 Apply for Loan at PNB Internet Banking System
 Apply for Loan in PNB ONE App 